Intelligent Human-Computer Interaction Based on Surface EMG Gesture Recognition
Urban intelligence is an emerging concept which guides a series of infrastructure developments in modern smart cities. Human-computer interaction (HCI) is the interface between residents and the smart cities, it plays a key role in bridging the gap in applicating information technologies in modern cities. Hand gestures have been widely acknowledged as a promising HCI method, recognition human hand gestures using surface electromyogram (sEMG) is an important research topic in the application of sEMG. However, state-of-the-art signal processing technologies are not robust in feature extraction and pattern recognition with sEMG signals, several technical problems are still yet to be solved. For example, how to maintain the availability of myoelectric control in intermittent use, since pattern recognition qualities are greatly affected by time variability, but it is unavoidable during daily use. How to ensure the reliability and effectiveness of myoelectric control system also important in developing a good human-machine interface. In this paper, linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and extreme learning machine (ELM) are implemented in hand gesture recognition system, which is able to reduce the redundant information in sEMG signals and improve recognition efficiency and accuracy. The characteristic map slope (CMS) is extracted by using the feature re-extraction method because CMS can strengthen the relationship of features cross time domain and enhance the feasibility of cross-time identification. This study is focusing on optimizing the time differences in sEMG pattern recognition, the experimental results are beneficial to reducing the time differences in gesture recognition based on sEMG. The recognition framework proposed in this paper can enhance the generalization ability of HCI in the long term use and it also simplifies the data collection stage before training the device ready for daily use, which is of great significance to improve the time generalization perfo.